# Self_Assessment_DAProj

As the first task of our final project, our team met together to discuss topics over dinner and drinks. This was the first time that we had gathered together in person since virtu-meeting each other as bright-eyed and bushy-tailed eager students in March! Though we were all thoroughly burnt out by the 5 months of learning, we enjoyed our time together and had some great discussions. The topic we ended up selecting was boardgame analysis. We chose this topic because the data was less-than-serious and we had a huge data set from Kaggle and Boardgames geek to use. I would like to add one caveat to the previous statement. The biggest struggle I had was that the project was not important at all. Sure, I've played games before, but I did not see how a data analytics project solved any kind of problem of even the slighest importance to me. I started the course hoping to help non-profit organizations that are solving the world's and our community's most important problems. Board games in my opinion, do not do anything to solve any of those problems. However, one of my teammates helped me realize that the purpose of this project is to showcase our skills, not to solve the world's problems!! That really helped to talk it through with a teammate to overcome this personal hurdle.

As a lover of logic, I found the SQL database and the databases section of the course the easiest and most friendly to follow/learn. As such, our team chose SQL as the database and I headed up the database creation and connection division of the project. 

Cleaning the data was my absolute least favorite bit of the course, so I was thankful that two of the team members were eager to jump on that task! The data cleaners and I worked closely together to ensure all the data needed was stored appropriately into our SQL database. Joining the tables, while in my opinion not value added to the project but of course was a requirement, was simple and helpful in order to export a clean .csv file. Connecting the database certainly took a long time to figure out! I tried connecting to Google Colab and although the internet of coders was able to do it (or so they claimed…) I ended up having to just connect to my local Jupyter Notebook. It all worked though and the whole team was pleased! 

Machine learning (ML) was a super fun course topic and the data cleaners were drilled into running with various ML models. We were all so grateful for their enthusiasm to keep us all trudging to the end! Though I did not directly code the ML, I enjoyed participating in our group discussions on what data to use and how to interpret the outputs. 

Our team heavily used Slack as a communication means as we all had disparate work hours and time slots available to meet in person. We helped each other solve coding problems and relied on each other to keep us all going and motivated to complete this challenging final endeavor. During our Zoom meetings, we struggled in the beginning trying to figure out what our plan was, and the struggle was compounded by some team members monopolizing the microphone and speaking while others were trying to speak. As such, I created a communication protocol of 2-minute talk time then passing and muting while the next person spoke. Speaking order was also established as alphabetical. I wrote out the protocol and shared in slack, and everyone agreed to utilize it! We were all so much calmer and less irritable after our next Zoom meeting. So, our protocol worked for everyone! This was a HUGE help. One additional communication tip: KEEP YOUR SLACK NOTIFICATIONS ON!! We all utilized Slack so much and it was great knowing that if any one of us posted something in Slack, at least one if not all of the team members would respond with help or an empathetic “virtu-ear” to listen!

Summary of the project:
Analyzing boardgames by their categories may seem like a game in itself, but our data analytics team used programming languages of Python, R, and SQL to scientifically uncover useful analytics. Our team was able to use Machine Learning to determine that Artificial Intelligence can find hidden categories amongst the plethora of categories game designers and players have assigned games. Pulling from a 20,000-game dataset from Kaggle via an API from Boardgame geek, our team used multilinear regression in R to explore statistics of popular games. Additionally, PCA, K-means and elbow curves in Python were used for Machine Learning on categorization. Our ML model results showed six different categories that many of these popular games fall in to (War Games, Easy-to-Learn Games, Party Games, Critically Acclaimed Complex Games, European-Style Strategy Games, and Fantasy Adventure Games); useful insights for board game developers and players alike! 
